{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
Since June 2013, a controversial \'93gay propaganda\'94 law has been in effect in Russia. Passed overwhelmingly by lawmakers and signed by President Vladimir Putin, it sparked international protests that intensified during the Winter Olympics in Sochi. The law bans the distribution to minors of information about \'93nontraditional sexual relations,\'94 and is aimed, Putin says, at \'93keeping the children safe.\'94\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 Attacks on gay Russians by anti-gay vigilantes have reportedly intensified since the law took effect, as have arbitrary detentions of activists by the police. News reports show harsher clampdowns by the authorities on protests and street actions by activists. In the face of increasing international scrutiny in the run-up to the Sochi \
Olympics, and in an attempt to neutralize critics, a revised bill was submitted to the state Duma removing the word \'93gay\'94 and leaving the propaganda law to cover all types of sexual relationships, including homosexuality. According to activists, the change is nothing but a whitewash, because the old provisions of the law remain, including fines of up to 1 million rubles and 90-day suspension of organizations promoting homosexuality.\
\
Since June, evidence suggests that an increasing number of gay Russians are looking for asylum overseas. According to Immigration Equality, an organization that provides legal support to asylum seekers in the United States, the number of inquiries on asylum from Russia has tripled since June 2013 and the gay propaganda ban, leading it to start a Russia Emergency Fund to get more lawyers and translators to help address the growing demands.  Since 1994, the United States has been granting asylum to those persecuted on grounds of sexual orientation.\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0  \'93What is most shocking to us is that for so long without a doubt, the number one calls that we used to get was from Jamaica,\'94 says Trina Olson, the organization\'92s deputy director. \'93And for the first time ever Russia eclipsed the calls that we were getting from Jamaica, which is a huge sign for us about how acute the problem was.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
Many of these gay Russians have left their lives and careers behind, sometimes with very little money and complete uncertainty. They travel to foreign countries where they don\'92t speak the language or understand the culture just to escape persecution and for a chance of an honorable life.\
                                    *****************\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2 \
\'93Let\'92s sing \'91The Falling Leaves,\'92\'94 says the English teacher as she plops herself on a steel chair in front of a grand piano surrounded by 10 Russian men and women in a music room in the basement of a Jewish Community Center on Bay Parkway, Brooklyn.  Oleg Dusaev is sitting slightly apart, tracing the Russian translations scribbled in black ink next to the lyrics with his small, shapely fingers.   \
\
The music begins. As the students drift from song to song, the mood becomes festive as the rough, weatherbeaten faces of tall Russian men break into broad smiles and their tense, thickset shoulders relax. Oleg smiles furtively at them. He is clearly the sharpest-dressed man in the room, with a gray woolen cardigan and stylish brown leather boots. His black Pierre Cardin glasses are perched on his small, rounded nose on a clean-shaven, square face with delicate, thin lips. His fingers move rhythmically, almost in a trance playing the imaginary notes in the air. Valentina asks Oleg to come forward to play the piano and soon the notes pour out of his fingers in a sublime release. Down the corridor in another class, Oleg\'92s husband, Dmitriy Stepanov, practices English with his classmates in his soft, lilting voice.\
\
Four days every week, Oleg and Dmitriy take a 90-minute subway ride from their small, one-room rented apartment on Union Turnpike in Queens to take free English lessons at this center. \
\
Oleg Dussaev, 33 and Dmitriy Stepanov, 30, fled Moscow in October last year after they say they were beaten up, harassed and intimidated by anti-gay vigilantes. Their careers in Russia met an abrupt end after Oleg came out publicly on Facebook in August. \
\
A classical pianist and a music instructor at a school affiliated with the Moscow Tchaikovsky Conservatory, Oleg was a well-known journalist and a television personality at the state-owned arts and cultural channel \'93Kultura,\'94 where he worked for eight years. His contract was terminated just days after he came out publicly.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2 \'93Today for me it's a time to be brave. Openly and honestly I want to tell you that I am gay,\'94 his post read. \'93I am the same person you knew before, the pianist and journalist Oleg Dusaev. I am a faithful Christian, convinced that God created and loves me for who I am.\'94 \
\
The next day, he says, his colleagues stopped talking to him, and some even refused to shake his hands. On September 4th, he was invited to appear as a television commentator on an independent Russian news channel to respond to a recent statement by President Vladimir Putin. In an interview with the Associated Press ahead of the G-20 summit in Russia, Putin had claimed that his government was not discriminating against those with what he called \'93nontraditional\'94 sexual orientation. Mindful of the potential repercussions, Oleg did not comment directly against Putin, but talked about his own experience of discrimination at work. He was handed his termination letter the next day. Meanwhile his phone was constantly beeping with hate messages. \'93Damned sodomites, we can help you burn in hell faster,\'94 said one. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2 \'93I had an interesting career in Russia and I finished my career in Russia,\'94 Oleg says. \'93Being famous was a problem for me.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2 Oleg\'92s mother, Nailya, a music teacher at a posh music school for children, was terrified after his termination. She had known since Oleg was 14 that he was gay. Her response was initially to ask him to find a girl, then to deny it, and finally to treat his boyfriends with rank hostility. But now it was different: the danger was very real. Nailya bought two tickets to the U.S. and pleaded with Oleg to leave the country with Dmitriy, his boyfriend for six years. \'93My mother had never acknowledged us as a couple, but this time she bought tickets for him as well. She was scared for him, too,\'94 Oleg says.\
\
We were sitting around a wooden table in the cramped, shared living room of their landlady's apartment in Queens. Oleg and Dmitriy live in one of the rooms leased out to them with dark blue walls and a small bed. Their marriage certificate sits framed on the table in front of their bed, with their wedding-cake topper figurines in black tuxedos standing on either side. It was a low-key October wedding at City Hall soon after they came to New York, attended by friends and sealed with a quiet kiss behind tall glasses of Champagne. \
\
\'93Here we are tenants and we have no privacy.  In Russia we had moments of peace but we also had two metal doors and security systems,\'94 Oleg says.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2 \
In early October, a few months after coming out, Dmitriy and Oleg were attacked outside a synagogue in Moscow. It was 10 p.m. and the streets were dark when the two assailants pounced on them and ripped their clothes. That very evening they received a text message from an unknown number: \'93Fuck off from here, or we will send you to jail,\'94 it said. \
\
\'93It was disturbing to get texts that we will be sent to jail because it\'92s easy to do that in Russia,\'94 Oleg says.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2 \
The attack was a brutal reminder of an assault that had sent Dmitriy to the hospital with a severe head trauma a few years earlier. He was walking near \cf0 Kolomenskoye Park\cf2  in Moscow to buy his dinner when a tall, burly man ran up behind him and cracked his fist on the back of his head. Oleg and Dmitriy pursued the case with the police but they say no one was arrested. In August 2013, they were handed an investigation report, which said that the case was closed after the file was found destroyed. \'93Where is the court, where can I appeal?\'94 asks Oleg, remembering the incident. Break-ins at their Moscow apartment became frequent when they started living together. They moved apartments, installed metal doors but the attacks continued. They say the police never came on time and no one was arrested.\cf0 \
\cf2 \
\'93We initially wanted to return to Moscow after our marriage,\'94 Oleg says. \'93We wanted the dust to settle, we had tickets for 30\super th\nosupersub  of October, but things changed dramatically overnight.\'94 \
\
\
A day before their flight back to Moscow, Dmitriy woke up to a text message from his 39-year-old sister, Irina, from his hometown, Saransk, more than 500 kilometers southeast of Moscow. \'93What is this news of your wedding on the front page of \'91Capital S?\'92\'94 she asked, referring to a local newspaper.  \'93How do you expect our parents to face the society now?\'94 \
\
Dmitriy was shaken. The article with the headline \'93Sodon and Umora\'94 (a word play on Sodom and Gomorrah) included their wedding pictures culled from their Facebook accounts, contained unnamed sources from Dmitriy\'92s family as well as from teachers in his school where he studied, who were quoted as being mortified by his wedding.\
\
 \'93I just read the first few paragraphs, I couldn\'92t bring myself to read the whole article,\'94 he says. The article also mentioned his mother, Ludmila, who suffered a stroke a few years ago, and his grandmother, who had died a month earlier. \'93Thank God she didn\'92t live to see this day,\'94 the article read, quoting an unnamed source.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf2  \'93We didn\'92t want to tell anyone we were married before the ceremony, we thought we will break it to them in Russia,\'94 Oleg says. Oleg\'92s mother bore the news calmly over the phone. She didn't know that the tickets that she had bought for her son to escape would help him get married to a man in a foreign land. A few days later she fainted at work. Dimitriy\'92s father snapped all ties with him when he tried to explain the article over Skype. His father and his sister haven\'92t spoken to him since. His New Year\'92s Eve messages were greeted by slammed phones. \
\
\'93His sister is scared that we will corrupt her sons and turn them gay,\'94 Oleg says.\
\
It was then that they decided that they couldn\'92t go back. Their tourist visa to the U.S. expires in spring. Recently they connected with No More Fear, an organization that is providing them free legal aid to apply for asylum in the US.\
\
\'93There is a lot of uncertainty now,\'94 Oleg says. \'93I am not thrilled not to return to Russia. I am also scared of leaving my mother behind but being beaten up or killed is not going to do anyone good.\'94\
\
It\'92s the first day of 2014 and we are at boulangerie near Central Park with Oleg\'92s mother, who came to New York for Christmas. Between tartines and soup, sounds of Tchaikovsky melt in the air. Oleg and his mother excitedly hum the tunes with their eyes fixed on each other almost like two maestros conducting a silent symphony. I ask Nailya if she will miss Oleg if he gets asylum. She looks at him with a faint, teasing smile and says, \'93Ask Oleg if he will miss his mother.\'94 Oleg eyes grow misty as she looks down and says quietly, \'93I want to see him every day. My mother has Alzheimer. She doesn\'92t recognize that I am her daughter. Oleg is my only family left. \'94\
\
Asylum is an irreversible process. Those who receive asylum can never go back to their home countries. The doors to Russia will be forever shut to Oleg and Dimitry if their request for asylum is granted and their application is approved. Their careers in Moscow are over. It\'92s time to make a fresh start. Oleg\'92s fame as a musician and a journalist is now a fading memory, almost irrelevant in the U.S., but as long as the music plays on the dusty old piano at the Jewish center between smatterings of English and laughter he and Dimitry have hope of a life where they can be called husband and husband without shame or fear.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0                                                ****************\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 It\'92s a corner caf\'e9 in Dupont Circle, the day after the polar vortex barreled through Washington, shrouding everything in white stillness. Small, soft flecks of snow dislodged by the biting wind fall abruptly from a few odd leaves onto the asphalt and diffuse. It is freezing. Homeless men shiver into the caf\'e9, taking in the aroma of roasted coffee beans, trying to escape the bitter cold.  24-year-old Anatoly Kazakov is sitting on a chair facing a glass window, looking out at the cold, calm streets of what is known as the gay capital of the district. \
 \
He is dressed in a black leather jacket and wearing a wolfish smile and rough, prickly stubble, his confidence oozing from the recently acquired, long American drawl, evening the rough edges of his Russian accent and stilted English words. \'93After this interview I am going to the gym, lots of hot men there,\'94 he says with a rakish smile and a twinkle in his light brown eyes. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 Anatoly escaped Chelyabinsk, a major Russian city near the Ural Mountains, in July, a month after the law came into effect. With one suitcase and $1,500, Anatoly reached New York first and then, after a few brief stopovers, finally made Washington his home in November.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\'93It\'92s hard to be a person from the third group, people treat you like you have a mental problem,\'94 he says. A short work and travel exchange program to the U.S. in 2011 opened his eyes about the possibility of living as an openly gay man and convinced him to come out in front of his family and friends in Russia. \
\
His father stopped speaking to him and withdrew all financial support. \'93He told my mother that he didn\'92t want to have a faggot at home. He said he didn\'92t want to see my face ever again. Not a big loss in my life,\'94 he says, laughing drily as his eyes drift to the cold streets outside. \'93I live with the idea of being open. I even told my employers while looking for a job that I am gay, of course they said no.\'94 \
\
In February 2013, two years after he was forced to leave his home and family, activism against the proposed anti-gay law was gathering force in Russia. Anatoly was organizing a demonstration in Moscow along with other activists when they were violently interrupted by anti-gay vigilantes, who tore through the demonstration, ripped their placards and brutally attacked them in full public view. After 10 minutes of a confused haze of blows and kicks, the assailants fled. Anatoly was hit from behind and pinned to the street until he was finally rescued by his friends and taken to the hospital, where he spent two weeks recovering from a concussion. \
\
\'93I thought by holding placards people will see us and know that we are asking for the same rights that they have. I thought it would change something. Now I know it was like a voice in an empty room,\'94 he says.\
\
Anatoly knew that the passage of the law was imminent and life would get even worse, that he would never be able to live as an openly gay man. He then decided to leave his country and came to America and is applying for asylum. \
\
 \'93In Russia I could have been a mid-level manager, here my degree means nothing, I have no money, but what about life? What about living? Here I can live,\'94 he says.\
\
Anatoly\'92s visa expired at the end of January. His asylum plea was completed with the help of a pro-bono lawyer from an NGO, to the Department of Homeland Security.\
\
There are days of waiting and uncertainty, before he can finally get a work permit. His money is all spent, and he is heavily in debt but he continues to bear it all with a smooth confidence and an ironic smile. \
\
\'93There was a period of depression, you have to pay rent, and you don\'92t have a job. You feel lonely and abandoned. But I am a person who doesn\'92t give up, I roll,\'94 he says.\
\
Before they can get a work permit, asylum seekers in the U.S. have to wait between five and six months after filing their application, which must be within a year of their arrival in America, or get an asylum status. They also have no access to any government-funded programs.\
\
\'93Many offices have tremendous backlogs so it takes longer than six months,\'94 says Max Niedzwiecki, coordinator of LGBT Faith &   Asylum Network, a nonprofit that helps asylum seekers in the U.S. \'93Most immigrants cannot rely on their ethnic communities, because if you are from a country which discriminates against LGBT people very likely the community here might reflect the same view. It\'92s a desperate situation.\'94 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
Viacheslav Revin, 31 is pouring borscht, a traditional Russian soup, into a white plastic bowl, gently pushing aside a gray cat purring toward him. \'93I like cooking because when I cook the result is now. At least it\'92s faster than my activism in Russia where I didn\'92t see any results,\'94 he says. \
\
Revin is a Facebook ninja, sharing, liking and writing posts about the Russian LGBT movement and the clampdown all in one breath from his worn-out Toshiba laptop while gently chiding his cats in Russian at his temporary home in Columbia Heights in Washington.\
\
An LGBT and human rights activist since 2007, Revin went beyond the anti-Putin rhetoric in his politics. His sexual identity and the forces trammeling it back home made political activism an existential necessity compelling him to take to the streets to voice the anger and resentment of his community against an authoritarian regime.\
\
Thousands of miles away from his former home in Nizhny Novgorod, Revin is waiting for asylum after his visa expired this month. He sits alone for long hours with two cats who crawl up to him confused by his Russian endearments. Time hangs oppressively on many silent afternoons as he sifts from one Russian online article to another before hitting \'93post.\'94 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\'93It's not good when you stay at home. I can walk on the streets, go to some museum and meet people, but really I should have a job. What do I do with my whole day? I don\'92t want to work illegally,\'94 he says.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
When Revin is not online, he calls up his newfound friends and LGBT activists and organizes protests at the embassies of other countries that have anti-gay laws, or demonstrates against Putin\'92s law in D.C.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \'93I do my activism through Facebook, try and find some help for Russian LGBT activists by talking about what\'92s happening in Russia, so that people don\'92t forget. If anything happens on Russia in the U.S. then people remember. It\'92s about international solidarity,\'94 he says haltingly in English. \
\
It was his relentless activism back in Russia that led anti-gay vigilantes to report him to the police after he tweeted at two members of the state Duma against their silence on the gay propaganda law. He initially planned to escape to Ukraine but luckily, he says, he was invited to a human rights conference in Washington last July. He came to Washington for the conference and didn\'92t go back.\
\
\'93Speaking in English is too much, it stresses me. Sometimes I switch off and I can\'92t understand anything,\'94 he says, looking at his open laptop with Google Translate ready for his aid in front of him. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0                                             ****************\
\
From the imperial Tsarist times, male homosexuality in Russia was part of a natural manifestation of masculine sexuality. This resulted in several subcultures flourishing quietly around public bath houses, lavatories, parks and other public places complicated further by varying forces of power and class. therefore essentially not an import of the west. This still isn\'92t clear enough \
\
 Homosexuality is not a recent import to Russia from the West. It existed during Tsarist times. It was criminalized then, and remained so until 1993, after the breakup of the Soviet Union  But the repression still continues unabated, by what many allege is a revisionist, heterosexist, intolerant political system where sexual orientation is often confused with Russian traditionalism and cultural chauvinism. \
\
\
\'93Russia is not a conservative country. Putin is holding onto the idea of a traditional Russia. When Russia lost the position of a superpower there was a loss of ego, they are trying to gain that image by pitting themselves against the West,\'94 says Yelena Goltsman, co-founder and president of RUSA-LBGT, an NGO based in New York. The organization helps integrate LGBT asylum seekers from Russia, Ukraine and Belarus in America. \
\
The gay propaganda law pushed through by Putin, according to political observers, was strategically timed to clamp down against any political opposition. It was done to take the attention away from the lapses of his administration. He did it by stoking a nationalist, traditional, Slavic identity which he thinks is under threat by Western imported  homosexuality, immigrants and Asians.\
\
\'93The wave of opposition to Putin's leadership has been the most threatening phenomenon that the Kremlin has seen and that began in late 2011,\'94 says Matthew Rojansky, director of the Kennan Institute, a leading American think tank on Russia and the former Soviet countries. \'93Seeking to identify that the movement was obsessed with sex, not wholesome and not part of the essential Russia is a way to alienate and isolate them.\'94\
\
Reports of the detention of LGBT activists and attacks by anti-gay vigilantes in Russia seem to have escalated since the ban took effect. But law in Russia and its enforcement according to some is often  used to serve political interests and as a tool of clamping down dissent.\
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0                                                         ******\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri720\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 Alexander and his spouse, Michail, know it only too well. Sitting in a burger joint in College Park, Maryland, where they arrived in September, the two recount the traumatic time when Michail was kidnapped and almost killed.\
\
Four assailants lured Michail, an owner of a printing business, to the Kuzminki metro station in Moscow for what was supposed to be a business meeting. He was pulled out of his car and bundled inside another with a black plastic bag wrapped around his head, and driven around Moscow for an hour while he was assaulted repeatedly. The attackers dumped him bleeding and hurt on the streets, but before driving away one of them shot a bullet close to his head and said, \'93Ask Alexander to do what we told him to or you die,\'94 as Alexander recalls. Michail is sitting next to him eating tiramisu with teeth that had to be fixed after they were shattered.\
\
Alexander used to work for a foreign organization, which he doesn\'92t wish to name. Trouble started one day when he says a man in a gray suit approached him when he was out on a smoke break and asked him if he was patriot. He says the man was from FSB, the Russian intelligence service, and wanted him to infiltrate an foreign agency to provide FSB with information. Alexander refused.  A week later the man appeared again, but this time with a credible threat not just to Alexander but also his spouse.\
\
\'93They wanted me to spy for them and when I refused they threatened me. They knew everything, our marriage in America in 2010. You know about the new law, and you know what happens to gays in prison. You should worry for your gay husband as well,\'92\'94 he recalls.  A week later Michail was kidnapped. \
\
They made a few frantic calls after that to their friends in the U.S., and changed the dates of the plane tickets they had bought for a Christmas vacation. Michail left his business and the couple fled to America. They say they cannot go back to Russia without being killed and the only escape is asylum.\
\
\'93When we left Russia we didn't know about asylum, we just decided to go away. You have to realize, he was afraid that he would be kidnapped again. We could do nothing if we were arrested. That was not a life, calling each other every 10 minutes and checking if we are OK, to see if anyone is following you. It\'92s not a real life,\'94 Alexander says.\
\
According to some LGBT activists in Russia, the FSB seems to have an inordinate influence on the private lives of people, often using the new law as a tool to muzzle protests.\
\
Andrew Obolensky, a Russian gay activist from Moscow says his father first learned that he was gay after receiving a call, allegedly from FSB agents, saying that his \'93son is a faggot."\
\
\'93The authorities\'92 tactic is to create a very tense situation and friction in families,\'94 Andrew says. \'93I talked to my father and how we should not take the bait of the provocation. I didn\'92t want to break up my family.\'94 \
\
Andrew was on a short visit to the U.S. late last year, when he was traveling extensively to create international solidarity over the LGBT issue in Russia. \
\
The gay propaganda law makes it difficult for activists in Russia to demonstrate against the intimidations and attacks on the members of the community. Permission for picketing or assembly is routinely denied by the police, forcing activists to devise novel ways to initiate impromptu street actions. This puts activists at great risk, especially in farflung areas of Russia away from the media glare usually centered around Moscow.\
\
Gleb Latnik, 30, a grass-roots LGBT activist from Pervouralsk, in the Urals, was \'93kidnapped,\'94 he says, by special agents before a scheduled demonstration in July last year. He says he was picked up in a car by men with no IDs or uniforms and taken to a police station where he was grilled for eight hours. He was finally released when the news of his detention created ripples in the social media. \'93I had the most ridiculous conversation with them for eight hours. It was not a legal arrest. They knew a lot about me more than I remembered about myself,\'94 he says. \'93I kept very calm, they asked me to call my friends and say that I was OK, I refused. They finally let me go.\'94 \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\ri380\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0                                                         *********\
\
"If you are looking for blood stories, you don't have to go far. You can find it right here in New York," Alexander Kargalstev says with his eyes drifting out of the window at the pale, gray, bleak, New York winter sky. He is hunched over a black, wooden table, his arms folded. It\'92s almost like he is on stage under a spotlight afraid of spilling into the darkness. Every movement is carefully considered and executed with precision. His brown and wavy shoulder-length hair is carefully tucked behind his ears. His fingers glide in the air as his hands jut out in spasmodic flashes and then return and fall in a heap on his knees. His long, shapely eyebrows look almost stenciled on his high and protruding forehead framing his hollow gray eyes. Faint, prickly boyish stubble gathers around his thin lips shaped like a bow. He turns toward me almost as an afterthought, as if suddenly remembering that I exist as he trails off.\
 \
\'93I used to work as a go-go dancer at a gay club,\'94 he says. \'93I was go-go dancing for seven months at The Web. I made most of my connections there. I danced and I danced.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl276\slmult1\sb100\sa100\qj
\cf0 Alexander studied film at a university in Moscow, where he tried to live a life of an openly gay man. At dining halls, conversations would stop and people would turn away. Some fellow students refused to shake hands with him, almost as if his touch would infect them with what they thought was his sickness. \
But Alexander persisted. He wrote articles for magazines, participated in queer protests, wrote and directed plays and went to gay meet-ups and house parties. Then the attacks began, first the skinheads and then the police. Alexander was attacked 15 times, he says. Once he was trapped during an online blind date, which went horribly wrong after he was set up by anti-gay vigilantes and beaten up at a public square in Moscow. No bystanders intervened to help. The Russian police once even beat him up with batons and tasers during a gay pride parade, he says. That\'92s when he decided he had to escape Russia.\
In 2010 he directed a short film, \'93The Cell,\'94 which was screened at a film festival in Los Angeles. He won first prize, which was a scholarship to the New York Film Academy to learn direction. He knew that was his ticket and he had to get out. He reached New York City in the summer of 2010 ready to live his life on his own terms without shame or fear. \
\'93I just want to live a full life, I just want to live a whole life. If I needed to move for that, I did, I moved to New York to live my full life,\'94 he says.\
In 2011 Alexander was granted asylum by the U.S. government. With very little money and a language that wasn\'92t his own, Alexander did everything he could to launch his career as a theater and film director and to scrape together a living in the city.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1400\sl276\slmult1\sb100\sa100\qj
\cf0 With just a one-time scholarship of $5,000 to the New York Film Academy, Alexander had no money when he reached New York. A friend he met in the city introduced him to a gay club, "The Web." He bought some underwear and got on the stage. He still has his first dollar tucked inside a black cardboard box in his apartment. It was the first dollar he ever made in America.\
Alexander limited himself to dancing just on stage. He couldn\'92t bring himself to go to private rooms and give lap dances to exclusive customers. \'93It\'92s too personal. It\'92s about privacy. What would be the next step -- prostitution?\'94 he asks.\
But he did make connections over dinners with influential customers who helped him get money to fund the production of his plays. \'93There is always an expectation of sex, but you have to be wise enough not to have sex so that they don\'92t lose interest,\'94 he says.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl276\slmult1\sb100\sa100\qj
\cf0 \'a0The club is now closed. Alexander quit his job as a go-go dancer after six months and works now as a consultant for an auction house in the city.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 He pays $3,000 a month along with his friends for a small loft with a red door in Brooklyn. Here people come and go, and open suitcases with an explosion of clothes lie in a corner in front of a discarded, dusty electric piano peeping out from a pile of music sheets. Alexander always wanted to live an artist\'92s life at a disheveled loft. Bogart Street felt just right. He shares it with three other Russians and lets it out to traveling visitors. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 Yet once every few months the loft gets dusted and cleaned, its mattresses are removed and it comes alive for Russian poetry parties. Oranges are served and potato chips are arranged neatly with mounds of pretzels scooped in the center in big, white bowls. Soon fingers glide on the electric piano and the sound of Tchaikovsky fills the air, moving the men to tears. Poems are read and enacted under white stage lights tied to wooden planks in the loft. The guests say that the evening\'92s showstopper is usually Alexander. He drinks some water out of a plastic yellow cup and begins pounding the words into submission as thick Russian cadences pour out of his mouth like soft boulders clashing into each other. He thunders, taunts and teases the audience with poetry on love and separation.\
\
Culture is integral to his life and defines who he is. His apartment is surrounded by warehouses turned into studios and men selling spliffs for a dollar on the pavement. \
\
\'93Going to art exhibitions, that\'92s the best part about living here,\'94 he says with childlike enthusiasm. He abandons English as his eyes light up in front of a painting at an art exhibition across the street while sipping cheap wine from a plastic cup as he melts into the crowd. Occasionally he hears a group speaking in Russian and he looks at them with a smile of recognition.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1400\sl276\slmult1\sb100\sa100\qj
\cf0 These days he is trying hard to arrange for funds for his new play to be staged at Dixon Place, \'93The Crematorium,\'94 a protest piece set in a fictionalized Russia where Putin is building a charnel house to burn gays.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \'93These laws happen because Putin wanted to be very popular and the law is very popular, so 85 percent support Putin in this,\'94 Alexander says about the anti-gay laws in Russia. \'93It\'92s very important for him to remain elected president, for him to be in power. If he is not in power people will kill him so he must remain in power.\'94 \
\
Last November, Alexander, along with nine Russian gay activists, decided to stage a flash kiss-in demonstration at the IKEA store in Brooklyn. Angry and impatient with the company\'92s decision to drop a profile of a Russian lesbian couple from its catalogue in Russia, Alexander decided he must do something. He organized the protest, took pictures and circulated them in media outlets.\
 \
He Skypes occasionally with people back in Russia who want to escape and seek asylum in the U.S. For many of them, a corner of Alexander\'92s loft is the first shelter they find after landing in America.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1400\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 New York City is now his home, where he is not ashamed or scared to hold hands on the streets and kiss in subways without feeling like a thief. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\sl276\slmult1\qj
\cf0 \'93In Russia there is a joke that 30 years down the line Stalin will be in the footnotes of history and people will remember the artists of the time,\'94 Alexander said with a smile. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
}